journalists working in areas of armed
conflict are protected under
International humanitarian law just like
civilians but Israel has been accused of
violating those rules repeatedly
Palestinian journalists say Israel is
trying to kill the messenger and silence
the story now a new report by a
Palestinian prisoner society says
journalists are being arrested as well
as killed Israeli forces have detained
80 Palestinian journalists since October
both in Gaza and the occupied West Bank
49 are in Israeli custody including four
female media workers a report by the
committee to protect journalists last
year said Israel is one of the world's
leading jailers of journalists joining
the ranks of countries such as China
Russia and Iran and Israel's war Gaza
has also been the worst on record for
the number of deaths of media
workers 147 journalists and media
workers have been killed by Israeli
forces in 8 months well let's now speak
to daud kutab who a Palestinian
journalist and Free Press Advocate who's
joining us from Jordan's capital Aman
thank you very much for being with us
let's start with the arrest first 80
journalists arrested since October by
Israel why under what pretext and what
have they been charged
with well the problem is the Israelis
don't have a a recognition of
Palestinian journ state for them all
Palestinians are the same and for many
they're all terrorists so there is no
specific statue for journalists they
don't give them press cards they don't
recognize them and as we saw with sharak
they have no problems in shooting and
killing them with the Palestinian
journalists being arrested in Gaza no
bank they are arrested as part of the
administrative detention orders which is
an arrest without trial without charge
they're just held without any legal
basis except the based on 1945 emergency
laws and so we have about 3,900
Palestinians today Behind Bars without a
charge they're kind of like the hostages
in Gaza they're held without charge
without a trial and um the journalists
are not recognized as journalists that's
the biggest problem plus the Israelis
have not allowed any International
journalist to enter Gaza and that's a
huge problem because every war in the
world we've seen International
journalists being able to cover it
except Gaza Gaza has not allowed any
external journalist and only journalists
who are covering it are Palestinians who
being shot and killed and as he said
arrested yeah and and Palestinian
journalists as we know have always faced
very difficult circumstances even before
the October 7th attacks how much worse
has it gotten since for
them oh it as as you said it is the
worst country now in the world in the
way they deal with journalists and the
way they kill arrest and harass
journalists and we know that also media
Outlets are being pressured to to kind
of tow the Israeli line but on the
Palestinian side the journalists are
treated exactly like everybody else they
don't accept the law of the law the
humanitarian law which is the law of the
war that states that journalists should
be immune from any attacks and so on and
so we've seen over 130 journalists in
Gaza being killed in addition to Shak
American journalist until this moment we
have not seen a single report about
Israel investigating this and if there
was an American journalist killed
anywhere in the world we would see a lot
more pressure on Israel to come up with
the facts so we have a problem in that
Israel is trying to hide the facts and
trying to Kill the Messenger and and so
how do we solve this problem how do we
make sure that there is Justice for
these more than a 100 journalists and
media workers who've been killed during
this
conflict well I think we have to work on
a number of levels International media
organizations must keep pressuring
Israel but also we have to work on the
Israeli uh Syndicate I think
International syndicates should either
boycott or ensure that the Israeli
Syndicate issues a statement every time
a Palestinian is arrested harassed or or
or killed and unless the Israeli
Syndicate stands up for Palestinian
rights like their fellow journalists I
think people should boycott the Israeli
Syndicate until they actually act in a
proper way and protecting fellow
journalist so we have to work on the
international level and also I think we
need to boycott the Israeli journalist
Association thank you for speaking to us
and and sharing your uh insight and uh
experience dwood kutab Palestinian
journalist and a free press Advocate
joining us there from Aman thank you
very much for your
time
welcome make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer